# Geography

    ## Northern Lights Province (NLP)
    The Northern Lights Province is a land removed from the planes: it sits between the Material and the Feywild, and it’s connected to a great number of worlds. The only constant on the Northern Lights Province is that of its namesake: ephemeral liminality. For decades, wayward sailors - becalmed, lost among a squall, adrift in the Astral Sea - have transited this mysterious island, partaking of it as a brief reprieve or diversion before returning to their respective lands, their respective times, their respective worlds. Yet forever untouched it would not remain – adventurers whose hearts longed for the land enshrouded beneath an ethereal veil of colors would return one day, and from these souls sprang the City of Light: the first and only permanent settlement in the Northern Lights Province. A new sanctuary for those vagabonds divorced from their fatherlands, an impetus to explore and to populate.  Across the lands are several aetherytyes.  Each aetherytye is essentially a big, blue, rotating Teleportation Circle that allow 1 aetherytye to aetheryte travel per day and one return to city per day.

    ## Isanya's Spine
    Should one want to follow the jagged ridgelines rather than cross the mountain range, Isanya's Spine continues southward as well. The snowcapped peaks block out the worst of the wind, making the mountainous area fairly calm to walk through compared to some of the frigid climes found along the peninsula.

    ## Sanctuary of Shinra
    From Isanya's Spine, the air grows thin as you climb upward. As you stop to rest, you take a moment to take in your surroundings. Behind you, the narrow footpath you are on winds down into the mountain pass below. Above you, the jagged, snow-covered peaks of the mountains rise up ever higher. Curiously, you can see a magnificent temple complex crowning the mountain peak, its sacred architecture reaching toward the heavens like a beacon of divine purpose amid the harsh, snow-covered landscape.

    ## Isanya's Pass
    Beyond the hidden lush valley lays Isanya's Spine, an imposing mountain range dividing the peninsula on which the City of Lights is located from the rest of the Province. Here, the biting chill that had crept over the land originates in strong winds that whistle as they twist around jagged peaks and icy glaciers. Amidst the hostile cliffs and ice, one such glacier was blasted to no more than rubble, granting access to the only visible pass through the range. Previously, the mountains were impossible to traverse to all but the most hardy of mountain critters, but now it serves as an adventurer's gateway to the rest of the Province.

    ## Verdant Hills
    A stark contrast to the frigid environment on the other side of the mountains, these lush green hills are diverse with flora, the air steeped in the smells of wildflowers, herbs, and grass. Further towards the center of the island, it almost feels like the air is charged with static electricity, and the terrain is choppy and erratic like cracked earth after a drought. To the west, the hills end abruptly in a sharp ravine, hundreds of feet across with its depths obscured by a thick fog. While it seems like the fissure blocks further exploration this way for now, you can see an expansive grassland on the other side.

    ## Verdant Outpost
    Originally a small fort, built around a prototype transport crystal, with a pair of warm halls housing hot springs and baths for travelers. These amenities still stand, and remain the primary attraction for passing adventurers, but they are no longer the main visitors. As the first outpost outside the walls, Verdant has developed into a small village worthy to rival the City itself. The original fort remains largely the same, left alone as lodgings for adventurers and travelers. Around it has sprung up a larger, walled village, housing a dozen families. A keep stands next to the fort for the outpost governor, the rest of the town filled with housing and markets for those who live within. Sturdy stone walls and elevated watchtowers guard the inhabitants at night, patrolled by dedicated Guild men. A true neutral ground, the village has come to serve as a hotspot of fey activity after the original ceasefire was brokered there. The courts often send delegates here to meet with City officials or each other about local politics, and both sides help the families here as they can. Outside the walls lie acres of farmland, interspersed with low stone barriers and raised posts for guards to patrol. To the side of the village stands a much larger building of piled stone and whole trees, housing a particularly eccentric family. Hill Giant renegades, seeking protection and peace have moved here. Come spring, the mighty family replaces oxen for the locals, helping their smaller neighbors pull carts and plows, and serving as thunderous backup when monsters come knocking. They are friendly and relaxed, truly part of the community now... And quick to warn adventurers to not expect such niceties from their brethren outside the walls. On occasion fey of the spring court can be seen, flying among the fields and urging the plants to new bounties. Winter helps in more material ways, their hunters and marksmen commonly escorting local teams out. With their guidance nearly every hunt is a success, turning half an acre of farmland into a dedicated tannery. A rip roaring trade has sprung up, with every caravan from the city passing through here. Well worn roads and ruts form at the edge of town, marking the beginning of civilization. Adventurers must walk quite far to make it to true wilderness now... But the safety and comfort this place offers is second only to the City. This outpost contains an aetheryte!

    ## Woodlands
    In the woodlands, towering trees reach up above a bed of fallen leaves and dense greenery. Nature-inclined characters might be able to recognize the distinct presence of redwoods and sequoias, hundreds of feet tall and dozens of feet across at their base, but a smattering of foreign species dot the landscape as well. With such dense foliage above, only a filtered dim light makes it down to the surface. To the west and southwest, the forest ends abruptly in a sharp ravine, hundreds of feet across with its depths obscured by a thick fog. A sturdy iron-adamantine alloy bridge crosses the ravine, allowing access to the reedy wetlands to the west. A dark crevasse intersects with the misty ravine to the southwest, the entrance to the Dark Ravine.

    ## Mushroom Forest
    Massive treelike fungal stalks make up the bulk of this forest, their spread caps and gills filling the space where branches and leaves would typically be. Sunlight peeks in between parasol-like caps and green plants sprout out of the ground to absorb the life-giving rays.  All around, smaller proliferous fungal bodies break out of the ground as well, filling the space in between shrubs and grasses. Their bright colors warn of toxic protective compounds should anything be brave enough to eat them. The ground is covered in creeping mycelium, a vast underground network of fungal hyphae seeking out anything to decompose. At night, the forest becomes a dazzling bioluminescent gallery. Blue and green glowing fungal bodies light the way, filling the bounteous forest with glimmering alien lights. Some creatures have taken to these qualities, glowing themselves: a quality that would normally distinguish them in normal forests, yet hides them in these bright shadows. Other more stealthy and obscure creatures hunt these lands too... some of these fungi preferring to get bloodied hunting their own nutrients to decompose.

    ## Underdark
    In the depths of the Underdark, a mysterious realm exists where daylight rarely ventures. Here, among vast caverns, towering mushroom forests rise like mighty redwoods, dwarfing any traveler that ventures beneath their enormous caps. Countless tunnels and crevasses branch off and between these immeasurable chambers, creating a practically unnavigable setting. The air is thick with a misty luminescence, a dim light emitted from the countless bioluminescent fungi that grow in abundance. It bathes the area in a soft, ethereal glow, creating a paradoxical nightscape illuminated by the very organisms that thrive in the dark. Long tendrils of moss dangle from the taller mushrooms, swaying gently in the subtle breezes that meander through the caverns. Adventurers have reported entering the Underdark in one location only to exit dozens of miles away, leagues farther than they'd actually travelled underground. Some theorize that the region is actually an extradimensional space or a network of portals, but the truth is as yet unknown. Typically contains races like drow, mind flayers, aboleths, kuo-toas, illithids, duergar. 

    ## Feywild
    The Feywild, also called the Plane of Faerie, is a land of soft lights and wonder, a place of music and death. It is a realm of everlasting twilight, with glittering faerie lights bobbing in the gentle breeze and fat fireflies buzzing through groves and fields. The sky is alight with the faded colors of an ever-setting sun, which never truly sets (or rises for that matter); it remains stationary, dusky and low in the sky. Away from the settled areas ruled by the seelie fey that compose the Summer Court, the land is a tangle of sharp-toothed brambles and syrupy fens - perfect territory for the unseelie fey to hunt their prey. The Feywild exists in parallel to the Material Plane, an alternate dimension that occupies the same cosmological space. The landscape of the Feywild mirrors the natural world but turns its features into spectacular forms. Where a volcano stands on the Material Plane, a mountain topped with skyscraper-sized crystals that glow with internal fire towers in the Feywild. A wide and muddy river on the Material Plane might be echoed as a clear and winding brook of great beauty. A marsh could be reflected as a vast black bog of sinister character. And moving to the Feywild from old ruins on the Material might put a traveler at the door of an archfey’s castle. The Feywild is inhabited by sylvan creatures, such as elves, dryads, satyrs, pixies, and sprites. They are curious, playful, yet often sinister and evil. Keep your wits close, and your name even closer.

    ## Feydark
    A segment of the Underdark that crosses into the Feywild plane, making it more vibrant, magical, and teeming with fey life. The Feydark is known for bioluminescent flora, strange fungal gardens, and the presence of fomorians as its dominant intelligent race.